pizza information from https://www.forketers.com/italian-pizza-names-list/ this :)

Margherita Tomato sauce, mozzarella, and oregano
Marinara. Tomato sauce, garlic and basil
Quattro Stagioni. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, mushrooms, ham, artichokes, olives, and oregano
Carbonara. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, parmesan, eggs, and bacon
Frutti di Mare. Tomato sauce and seafood
Quattro Formaggi. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, parmesan, gorgonzola cheese, artichokes, and oregano
Crudo. Tomato sauce, mozzarella and Parma ham
Napoletana or Napoli. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, oregano, anchovies
Pugliese. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, oregano, and onions
Montanara. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, mushrooms, pepperoni, and Stracchino (soft cheese)
Emiliana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, eggplant, boiled potatoes, and sausage
Romana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, anchovies, capers, and oregano
Fattoria. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, peppers, peas, porchetta (Italian spit-roasted pork)
Schiacciata. Olive oil and rosemary
Prosciutto or Cardinale. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ham, and oregano
Americana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, sausage and french fries
Prosciutto e Funghi. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ham, and mushrooms
Braccio di Ferro. Mozzarella, spinach, ricotta cheese, and parmesan
Sarda. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, pecorino cheese, and spicy salami
Tonno. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, tuna, and onions
Valtellina. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, bresaola, Parmesan flakes and rocket
Gorgonzola. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, gorgonzola, and olives
Calzone (folded pizza). Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ham, mushrooms, artichokes, anchovies, and oregano.
Pizza al Pesto. Tomato, mozzarella, Genoese pesto, pine nuts, and olives
Mediterranea. Tomato sauce, buffalo mozzarella, cherry tomatoes and pepper
Ortolana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, and assorted vegetables
Diavola. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, spicy salami, and chilli pepper
Rustica. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, gorgonzola cheese, and eggplants
Contadina. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, asparagus, mushrooms, bacon, and parmesan.
Parmigiana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, eggplants and parmesan flakes
Capricciosa. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ham, artichokes, mushrooms, and olives
Ricotta e Spinaci. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ricotta cheese, and spinach.
Mare e Monti. Mozzarella, tomato sauce, seafood and porcino mushrooms
Padana. Tomato sauce, parmesan cheese, salami, zucchini, and polenta (boiled cornmeal)
Tedesca. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, and Vienna Sausage.
Tirolese. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, gorgonzola cheese and speck
Boscaiola. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, porcino mushrooms and bacon
Campagnola. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, corn and sausage
Vegetariana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella and a various vegetable
Bufalina. Tomato sauce, Buffalo mozzarella, and oregano
Fontana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, gorgonzola cheese, radicchio, and parmesan
Francescana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, porcino mushrooms, ham, and parmesan
Pizza tartufata. Mozzarella, truffle cream, and porcini mushrooms
Tricolore. Mozzarella, bresaola, and parmesan flakes
Valdostana. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, fontina cheese and bacon
Caprese. Mozzarella and sliced ​​tomato
Fiori di zucca. Mozzarella, courgette flower, anchovies and olive oil
Bismarck. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, ham, and fried egg
Funghi. Tomato sauce, mozzarella, mushrooms, parsley and olive oil
Mimosa. Mozzarella, cream, ham and corn
